# Devices can't follow signals perfectly

## Software: signal generation jitter

Signals generated by Arduino or DAQs have certain jitter in time and amplitude, that is to say that there is an uncertainty in exact voltage level and when signal happens. For example, [here](https://lowpowerlab.com/forum/moteino-m0/clocktimer-jitter/
) we look at an oscilloscope recording of a repeated pulse from Arduino (1.5ms pulses every 20ms). The time delay between pulses has uncertainty around 5µs

```{image} ../../static/arduino_jitter.png
:alt: galvo mirror response
:width: 350px
:align: center
```

If you need timing between repeated pulses to be better maintained than that, you have to pick another type of signal generator. There are [many more](https://www.ni.com/en/shop/data-acquisition/measurement-fundamentals/digital-timing--clock-signals--jitter--hystereisis--and-eye-diag.html) characteristics of signals than jitter such as hysteresis, rise time, and settling time.

## Hardware: galvo mirror response

```{image} ../../static/galvo-signal-response.png
:alt: galvo mirror response
:width: 350px
:align: center
```

Galvo mirror steers laser beam following input electrical signal. However, the response (provided by sensor inside galvo) is not perfectly following the input signal. [Some microscopes](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-023-46245-2) are sensitive enough to that discrepancy and require correction. Such correction is done by adjusting parameters of PID controller that transforms input signal into voltage that drives mirror. Because galvo systems are assembled for the specific mirror, the PID parameteres are embedded in hardware using adjustable potentiometers on the control board.

## Hardware: piezo response

Another example is piezo collar to move objective that is often used for 3D imaging (z-scanning). These devices are heavier and need to be able to move objectives of different weights, so calibration is more complicated (PID adjustment) and performed inside the device's software.

```{image} ../../static/piezo-collar-response.png
:alt: piezo collar repsonse
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
